Hey, Noel,
it's Chocolate Week here
on The Great British Baking Show.
My mum always used to say,
[mimics Forrest Gump]
"Life is like a box of chocolates."
-She was from Bristol, I think.
-[laughs]
But the thing is,
life is meant to be enjoyed.
But better if you share it
with someone else.
I'm not ready
to share my life with anyone.
Just a little.
Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
Give me one of those life nuggets.
Get your own life, you little shrimpy.
[both laughing]
Shrimpy?
[Alison] This time…
-[laughs]
-…it's Chocolate Week.
I hate white chocolate,
it's the bane of my existence.
[Alison] The bakers take
on a torte in the signature…
This looks horrible.
…tackle a high-temperature technical.
Melting, melting, melting.
…and are pushed to their breaking point.
[Nicky] Oh, dearie me.
[Alison] In a chocolate box showstopper.
My heart is breaking right now.
Oh, God.
I am stressing now.
-[exhales]
-Is Tash all right?
-[medic] Take as much time as you need.
-[Tasha] Okay.
[opening theme music playing]
[Dan] The hottest day of the year
for chocolate,
and every year when they do
Bake Off, it happens.
[Dana] There'll be a lot
of fridge freezer trips.
You'll probably see me in the fridge…
[laughs] …I can guarantee.
Chocolate's the thing I reach for
when I'm… when I'm stressed or upset.
The things that you love the most,
hurt you the most.
I love eating chocolate,
but to work with it is horrible.
So messy, it's so temperamental.
I don't know about chocolate.
I will have a meltdown.
Hello, kids, welcome back to the tent.
It's Chocolate Week.
[Alison] For your
Chocolate Week signature,
Paul and Prue would like you
to make a luxurious chocolate torte,
made without wheat flour.
Now, they say some things can't be torte,
but this one must be.
[Alison] You've got two and a half hours.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
[Noel] Bake.
My children, they love chocolate,
they love eating chocolate torte,
so I am making for them.
What is the difference
between torte and a cake?
You're asking the wrong person.
-I'm gonna go find Prue.
-Yeah, find Prue.
When we think of a torte,
it's usually quite a rich cake,
a bit more dense and luxurious.
That is what
we want the bakers to think of,
but it must not have
any wheat flour in it.
So they could use chestnut,
they can use ground almonds,
whatever they wish,
but it tends to make the cake quite heavy.
The bakers have gotta be
careful on the fillings,
something light,
raspberries, strawberries, fruits.
It's an opportunity for the bakers
to show off their piping skills,
their spinning skills,
their moulding skills.
They can show off a bit and they should.
Morning, Saku.
-Good morning.
-Hello, Saku.
Tell us about your chocolate torte.
I am making a Saku torte.
-[all] A Saku torte.
-Yes.
Of course you are. What's in that?
[Saku] It's like Sachertorte,
but instead of apricot jam,
I am using, er, raspberry jam.
Instead of writing Sacher, I am going to--
-Write Saku. [laughs]
-Saku. [laughs]
[Alison] Saku's personalised twist
on the classic Sachertorte
will see raspberry jam sandwiched
between cakes of dark chocolate
and ground almond
finished with her own name hand-piped
onto dark chocolate ganache.
[Saku] I practised three times.
First time, the writing
went horribly wrong.
-Right.
-[Noel] Where do you practise,
-at your house?
-Yes.
-In the middle of the night?
-Around half one, two o'clock.
Yeah, early hours. [laughs]
One in the morning you're baking…
-That's fine.
-…Saku torte.
[all laughing]
Popping my ground almonds
into my chocolate and egg yolks.
[Noel] Whichever wheat flour alternative
the bakers have chosen
will change the flavour and texture
of the chocolate torte.
I'm using ground hazelnuts
and putting some cornmeal in it.
It adds
a bit of a denser texture to the torte.
[Alison] While ground almonds
are the most popular choice in the tent…
It's quite typical for a torte.
If it's not broken, don't try and fix it.
…not all the bakers are playing it safe.
For the torte itself,
I'm using ground pecans.
-[Prue] Ground pecan.
-[Paul] They let out a bit of oil.
I grind them one-to-one with icing sugar,
and I get a nice crumb mixture,
similar to ground almonds.
That's interesting. If you're grinding
your own nuts, it's always difficult.
[Paul] And painful.
[Josh and Noel chuckling]
Grind 'em up quick, less pain that way.
[Prue] You boys are just disgusting.
[Noel] Josh's pecan-based torte
will layer chocolate crémeux,
raspberry Chantilly cream
and fresh raspberries from his garden,
surrounded by delicately piped
chocolate leaves.
[Josh] Chocolate, pecans and raspberry,
a classic combination.
I've not seen the pecans
used in the sponge before,
so I hope they like it.
This looks horrible.
[Noel] Josh isn't the only baker
taking a risk.
What are you using instead of flour?
Er, egg whites. It's relying
on egg whites, no flour.
Well, that's my favourite mix,
I love that.
It's so light, but it's difficult
not for it to squash down.
If you pull it off, it'll be perfect.
[Alison] Hoping to perfect
a flawless flourless sponge,
Rowan's adding espresso and cocoa powder
and he's giving his torte
an extra caffeine kick
with a coffee Swiss meringue
buttercream filling.
[Rowan] I'm a coffee fiend.
I can't function as an adult
without my four espressos.
My heart's gonna explode
just from the coffee alone.
[Alison] Whilst Rowan's
getting his daily fix…
Put an extra bit in for Prue.
-…Dan's starting Chocolate Week…
-[Dan] Tickety-boo.
[Alison] …with something stronger.
[Dan] So I'm going
for a Mexican torte this week.
I'm putting a Mexican liqueur in there
which is a guanabana fruit.
You can taste, if you'd like.
I think it's a bit too early even for me.
[Noel] Dan's boozy Mexican torte
will combine hazelnuts,
dark chocolate and guanabana liqueur,
topped with fresh fruit
and chilli chocolate truffles,
he's hoping to tickle
the judges' tastebuds.
I think after last week
I'd like to see the old Dan come back.
-I have reset after last week.
-[Noel] What did you do?
Got naked, looked in a mirror,
top of a mountain, tai chi?
-Yeah. [laughs]
-[Paul] Thanks.
-[Noel] Headband. Bantz.
-Thank you.
[Noel] While it might be
too early for Prue,
Dan's found another drinking buddy.
I'm doing a ginger torte
with a good amount of booze.
So I've got amaretto
and ginger wine inside the torte.
Weird combination on its own,
but in a cake it works well. [chuckles]
[Alison] Tasha's unusual
ginger cocktail will be combined
with dark chocolate and ground almonds.
And for an even stronger spice kick,
she'll decorate the torte
with piped praline ganache
and ginger mascarpone kisses.
Twice… Star Baker.
[softly] Yes.
-I mean, that's a big thing.
-Yeah.
What I like about this is,
you're pushing the boat out,
'cause to put ginger
with chocolate is a… is clever.
Little bit risky. And to get that balance…
-You're piling on the pressure.
-Yeah.
[Prue] My goodness.
[Josh] So I'm just now folding in
the French meringue.
[Alison] To avoid serving
a flat, dense torte…
This is quite a crucial stage.
Because it's flourless,
you're relying on the egg whites really.
[Noel] …the bakers must fully incorporate
all of the whisked egg whites.
Try and combat that density,
which is just inherent to a torte.
[Alison] But overmix
and the torte won't rise when baked.
[Dana] I have practised this.
The first time, it went great.
The second time, it collapsed.
So, now we're on
to the third time. [laughs]
[Noel] Dana's towering
three-layered almond based torte
will be filled with cherry compote,
white chocolate mascarpone buttercream
and candied almonds.
-Is it going to taste of cherry chocolate?
-I hope so.
-There's a cherry compote in the middle.
-Why did you pause?
'Cause I don't like tortes.
I haven't tasted it.
-[laughs] Good luck.
-Thanks.
-Good luck with this one.
-[laughs] I know.
In on 160. It's in.
[Tasha] Bake well, be good.
Because it's nuts, it's a bit dense,
takes ages to bake, like, 50 minutes.
[Noel] While their chocolate tortes
may be slow to bake…
Till then I will make the jam.
[Alison] …the bakers have no time to lose
making their light flavourful fillings.
So, I'm making
a cherry brandy cream filling.
When I was younger,
my mum, after Sunday lunch,
she used to always buy
a black forest gateaux.
I got the inspiration from that.
[Alison] Recreating her favourite
childhood flavours,
Cristy's almond,
chocolate and cherry torte
will be updated
with a cherry brandy Chantilly cream
and finished with a white chocolate collar
and intricate decorations.
[Cristy] I've got a mould,
it's just getting them out.
I had a nightmare at home.
I just hope it works in the tent.
-I know. [laughs]
-[Noel] Quite tricky.
I'm gonna make a few.
-Right, okay.
-A selection.
So we're making mousse with a little
bit of praline going through it
and then a chocolate crémeux and a glaze.
Hopefully I'm not doing too much.
[Noel] Matty's ambitious torte
will be topped
with a chocolate
and hazelnut praline mousse
and chocolate crémeux,
all coated in a chocolate mirror glaze.
He's hopeful a crown
of carefully tempered chocolate shards
will give him the edge.
[Matty] We're on to the crémeux.
-[Alison] Are you on time?
-[Matty] I think so.
Check you out. Like proper professional.
This is your week.
Stop saying that.
You said that last week
and it was a calamity.
[laughs]
[Tasha] Praline white chocolate ganache.
Can start setting.
[Noel] Unless each element
is set completely…
Have to make my ganache
and cool it in time,
ready for the assembly.
…once assembled,
the tortes will slump and sag.
It's all about chilling it,
the main thing.
[Alison] But for Nicky,
getting her mousse right is make or break.
It's going to have a chocolate
almond torte on top.
-On the top? That's brave.
-[Nicky] On the top. It is brave.
-This is a wild and crazy time.
-[Prue] Have you tested this?
I have.
A couple of times and it's set.
[Alison] Nicky's topsy-turvy torte
is flavoured with vanilla rum
and will perch upon her chocolate mousse.
Piped ganache
and tempered chocolate shards
will complete her precarious bake.
Love it when they call you brave.
Nicky the Braveheart.
-You just gotta hope it holds together.
-Oh.
You'll be on your horse
at that point, painted blue.
[both laughing]
-Off we go.
-Freedom!
Bakers, you are halfway through.
-Keep baking.
-I can work with halfway through.
-I feel good.
-[Matty] Just having a little look.
[Noel] Underbake their tortes,
and they'll remain too dense and claggy.
They're about done.
I'll give them 30 more seconds.
[Alison] Overbake and they'll become dry
and crumble apart.
-I think I'm gonna come out.
-[Dana] We're coming out the oven.
[sighs] Call it a day.
[Tasha] Looking good, a nice crunchy top,
which is what we wanted.
No major cracks. Phew.
[Dan] Put my tray in wrong.
Now it's got a tilt on it.
-That is annoying.
-[Alison] What's happened?
Had a bit of a mishap.
It's slightly slanted.
I don't think it looks that bad.
[laughing]
You could ski or sledge down it.
-A little slope.
-Yeah.
Can't use that,
all my truffles will roll off.
Always something to test you.
[Rowan] Get 'em in the freezer
so they're solid.
[Noel] While Dan's starting
his chocolate torte once again…
My kinda baking now.
Chuck it in, hope for the best.
…the rest of the bakers
are leaving theirs to cool…
[Dana] But if that doesn't cool down,
then we're screwed.
Can I say that? [chuckles]
[Noel] …and can begin
making their exquisite decorations.
-Guess what? More chocolate.
-[Matty] I'm tempering my chocolate.
The better the temper, quicker the set.
The nicer the snap, the brighter it is.
They do like tempering.
It's like showing off in the baking world.
-It is a little bit.
-Just tempered these shapes, everyone.
[clicks tongue] Check this out. [chuckles]
[Alison] Prue and Paul are expecting
beautiful elaborate chocolate decorations.
Oh, God. Act busy.
[Alison] The more intricate the design…
[Saku] These are for the chocolate nest.
[Alison] …the greater the chance
they could crack.
Oh! Okay, they're all cracking.
I shouldn't have chose this mould.
What is wrong with me?
I need to redo them.
-[Alison] How you going?
-Bit of a nozzle issue.
-Nozzle issue?
-[Josh] It's setting in the nozzle.
What if I hold you like a baby?
[Alison] You hold him
and I'll hold you. [laughs]
-[Noel] Did that work?
-[Josh] No.
That's not supposed to happen?
[both laughing]
-[Alison gasps]
-[Noel] I should go.
-Bye. [laughs]
-Let's go.
Right, are you flat and balanced?
Yes, you are.
It's gonna be really tight now.
Bakers, I don't want to bother you,
but you've got half an hour left. [laughs]
You just bothered them.
[Noel laughs] Like a baking pirate.
[Alison] With their
chocolate sponges cooled…
If it's hot, it's gonna melt.
…and fillings set…
[Nicky] This is my mousse,
it will be fine.
[Alison] …assembly can begin.
[Tasha] Alternating praline ganache
with the mascarpone cream.
[Noel] The taller the torte…
-[Rowan] Got many layers.
-[Noel] …the tougher the task.
[Dana] I'm making three layers.
Making sure I get a straight cake,
rather than a wonky one. No collapses.
[Matty] I hope the glaze is cool,
otherwise it'll melt everything else.
[Rowan] It's working.
I love it when a plan comes together.
It is a big gamble because the cake
sits on the top, but go large or go home.
[Cristy] Bit of unmelted chocolate.
Oh, it's just such a mess.
-[Saku] It looks like a mess.
-[Alison] Is it supposed to?
Yeah, it is rough and ready.
-Well, then just own it.
-Yeah.
[Cristy] I'll conceal
the messy edge with the collar.
Let's get the cake out. Take two.
That looks a bit more like it.
Phew.
Bakers, you've got 15 minutes left.
[Dan] Into the freezer. Let's do this.
[exhales heavily] Now the piping.
This is really difficult.
My hand's shaking.
[gasps] I messed that.
[Cristy] It's not worked.
It's magic.
[Cristy] I need to do some decorations,
my leaves haven't worked.
I'm gonna put some of this on here.
Tickety-boo,
I took that out the freezer.
Right, so here we go, glazing.
Bakers, you have only one minute left.
Do we really? Gosh, Paul is gonna hate it.
[Nicky] Popping some
tempered chocolate on.
I'm finished. I want to eat that.
White chocolate, then truffles.
It is really messy.
I'm so embarrassed.
Finished. [sighs]
Okay, bakers, that is your time up.
Please step away from your bakes.
Well done.
Where did that time go?
[Noel whistles] Go on, Saku,
did you just put
40 raspberries in your mouth?
[both laughing]
[Alison] The bakers'
flourless chocolate tortes
will now face the judgement
of Paul and Prue.
-Hello, Nicky.
-Hi.
-Hello.
-Hi, Nicky.
Straight off, it looks amazing.
Nicky, I agree,
I think it's a little work of art.
It's elegant, it's classy and cool.
And the shine is amazing.
[Paul] Let's see what it tastes like.
Oh, don't. The proof is in the pudding.
[Paul] It is.
[Prue] The mousse
is holding its shape, which is great.
Mmm. Flavours are great,
really strong chocolate.
It needed a fruit in there,
a raspberry, strawberry
or something tart to break down
that chocolate a little bit.
But a decent job. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-[whispers] Very good.
The outside doesn't look so good.
A bit wobbly.
[Paul] If you take the sides off,
look at the top, it looks nice.
Let's see what it's like inside.
-[Prue] Is this ground almonds in here?
-Ground almonds, ground hazelnuts.
The flavour of the cake and praline mousse
work beautifully well together
with that chocolate top. It's lovely.
[Prue] I love the height,
looks very spectacular.
-[Paul] Oh, drop through.
-[Alison gasps]
Ooh, look at that.
The flavour is fantastic.
Cherry flavour's beautiful.
But the cherry and the mascarpone filling
that you've got is a bit weak.
[Prue] If you had overnight to set it,
it would've been better.
I like the colour, I like the shine.
The sides, however,
are not particularly good. Oh, dear.
[Prue] This is definitely dessert
rather than cake.
It is absolutely delicious. The tartness
of the raspberries come through.
You get the chocolate.
I mean, it tastes amazing,
but it's almost a pudding, isn't it?
Where are the leaves?
[chuckles]
-I hate that mould so much.
-[chuckles]
It's in the bin.
It's messy where the collar joins the cake
'cause you want that nice and smooth.
But you know what?
It still looks extremely inviting.
Thank you, Prue.
[Paul] The cake is a little bit dry.
-Okay.
-[Paul] And very crumbly.
[Prue] I think you need more cherries,
more cherry brandy.
More chocolate. It's got no real flavour.
-Bloody hell.
-Does that mean it's got no calories?
-Yeah. [laughs]
-[Alison] No flavour, no calories.
[Paul laughs]
Well, I must say, I think it looks
very neat and quite original.
-More height would've been nicer.
-Don't forget to try chilli truffle.
[Prue] Will this blow my head off?
Hopefully not.
I don't mind the chilli,
I think the texture's too gluey.
It reminds me of Mexico,
but it's overwhelming on the alcohol.
Yeah, I would agree with that.
I'm not sure that finish
looks as good as it could.
[Prue] Come on,
I'm dying for a bite of ginger.
Ginger's lovely and strong,
I like it.
But the texture of the cake
is very pudding-y, too moist.
The ginger brings the heat,
but what I do get is a tonne of amaretto.
For me it's drowned it.
It's a bit messy.
And Saku written, it probably needed
to be little bit more stark.
[Prue] In white chocolate,
it would've stood out better.
Very chocolatey.
The raspberry's coming through.
Chocolate's beautiful and strong.
But it's a little bit
too gooey in the middle.
It's quite heavy
and so you can't eat a lot of it.
-[Paul] Very elegant.
-It is.
Beautifully smooth, got a lovely shine.
Decorations are good, pipework is good.
[Prue] Let's see if it's as good inside
as it is outside.
That looks amazing.
[Prue] Doesn't that look pretty?
I love it, it's very strong on the coffee.
Yeah.
-It's beautiful.
-My gosh.
[Paul] The Swiss meringue buttercream
is like silk.
And the level of coffee is spot on.
The sponges have compressed a little.
[Prue] Your cake
-was completely flourless, was it?
-Yeah.
-[Prue] That's why it's compressed.
-[Paul] Overall, a good job.
-Thank you.
-[Alison] Well done.
-Thank you very much.
-[sighs] Oh.
What the hell. [laughs]
That couldn't have gone better really.
It didn't go great.
Yeah, Chocolate Week,
I'm not loving all this.
[laughs]
They said it is not elegant.
I accept that.
Just like myself, simple,
that's how I like everything.
Prue called it elegant, classy and cool.
I can go off skipping into the meadows,
ready for my technical.
Yes. [chuckles]
Bye!
[Noel] The bakers could practise
their signature bake,
but have no idea what awaits them
in their chocolatey technical challenge.
Welcome back, bakers.
It's time for your technical challenge.
Now, this challenge has been set
by the princess of puddings,
-Prue Leith.
-[chuckles]
-Do you have any words of wisdom?
-[Prue] Yes.
When working with the chocolate,
you need perseverance and patience.
As always, this challenge
is judged blind, so, Prue and Paul,
you may now leave the tent, thank you.
They'll do some gymnastics.
-[laughs]
-Prue's got a pommel horse.
Paul's gonna get in his leotard.
Okay, so Prue would like you to make six
perfectly baked individual cheesecakes.
[softly] Oh.
Your cheesecakes must comprise
of a caramelised white chocolate filling
on top of an oaty biscuit base.
Topped with a blackcurrant jelly
and white chocolate decoration.
You have two hours.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
[chants] B to the A to the K to the E,
let's bake!
Let's bake!
[Alison and Noel laughing]
[Dana] That's not a lot of time
to make a set, baked cheesecake,
so there's a lot of pressure.
[Rowan] Never made caramelised
white chocolate nor a cheesecake.
So basically, I'm in the dark here.
Prue, this looks quite
a complicated technical, is it?
There are a few hurdles to get over.
The really tricky thing
is caramelising the chocolate.
They need to stick it in the microwave,
and every 30 seconds, give it a stir.
Another 30 seconds, give it a stir,
until it gets this straw colour.
But don't overdo it.
-[Paul] They could burn it.
-Yeah.
Hmm. The fact you've caramelised
white chocolate, it's silky,
it's lovely, luxurious.
I'm curious to see how they're gonna
deal with this white chocolate.
That could catch the bakers out,
which in turn throws their timings out,
which in turn ends in melting messes
all over the top.
You're a gloomy fellow.
[both laugh]
[Nicky] Instruction number one,
"Make the biscuit base
using the rubbing-in method."
So, I've just combined
the flour and butter.
[Cristy] Add the oats.
Two, "Spread the mixture out
on a tray and bake."
I want the oats to get a nice colour.
I don't think it's gonna need very much,
just get it a wee bit crisp.
Five minutes and then check.
Blooming hell, it's hot, innit?
Every time I come to this area,
-my temperature actually goes up.
-[laughs]
I do have that effect.
Next, it's move on
to the blackcurrant jelly.
Which helpfully says,
"Make blackcurrant jelly." [exhales]
Feeling jelly, jelly. [laughs]
I've left some of the blackcurrants whole
for a bit of texture.
[Rowan] It's more civilised
to sieve your jelly.
-[Noel] Hello.
-[Rowan] Hi.
-How are you?
-I'm good. I'm gonna squeeze my gelatine.
-Do you like gelatine?
-No. It's a pig's trotter.
-Is that what it is?
-Basically.
-We should all be vegan at this point.
-Are you a vegan?
-No. [laughs]
-[laughs] Well, there you are.
[Dan] So now,
pour into the lined tray to set.
-That's gotta go in the fridge surely.
-I'm getting them out.
-[Dana] Happy with the biscuit.
-[Rowan] Then give it a blitz.
[Dana] I'm gonna
get the biscuit base into the mould.
Equal amounts.
The right amount in each one,
didn't end up the way I thought it would.
That's okay.
Patted it down
so it's gone nice and set. Right.
[Rowan] Next on the agenda,
caramelising some white chocolate.
Caramelised white chocolate.
I don't know what it is.
[Dan] I've done it before.
Can't remember when I did it,
but I have done one.
[Alison] Caramelising white chocolate
will test the bakers' knowledge and nerve.
"Heat chocolate in bursts in the
microwave stirring between each burst."
What's a burst?
Kind of like ten seconds.
[Noel] Not long enough in the microwave,
it could be grainy and unpleasant.
I'm just gonna do 30-second bursts.
[Noel] But white chocolate's
high sugar content
means even a few seconds too long
could mean disaster.
I'll not do more than 20-second bursts,
'cause it might start burning.
My burst is one minute 30 seconds
on a medium.
Nothing's happening.
[Dana sighs] Oh.
Prue did say perseverance and patience.
[Nicky] It should go a browny colour.
[Saku] Nothing happens. Still look white.
It's starting to change texture.
[Rowan sighs] I burnt it.
I've burnt my chocolate.
Right. I'm starting again.
-Has anyone managed it yet?
-[Dan] Yeah, that's me.
-I don't wanna push it any further.
-Yes.
We're there,
so I'm gonna leave it at that.
[Saku] Looks good, I don't know
if it is the right consistency.
I'll leave it now.
[microwave beeps, opens]
[Tasha] Oh, no.
No! [groans]
It's burnt. I hate white chocolate.
It's the bane of my existence.
I'm gonna set up a charity
for everybody who's worked
with caramelised white chocolate.
It's fine,
we're not gonna stress too much about it.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
[Dan] Now, I'll beat the cream cheese,
add the egg,
mix in my caramelised chocolate,
cornflour and cream.
[Alison] While most of the bakers
move onto their filling…
I'm not sure
what consistency I'm looking for.
-…Rowan…
-[Rowan] I beg of you. Please work.
-[Alison] …Tasha…
-Need to get a wiggle on.
…and Dana are struggling
to caramelise their white chocolate.
There'll come a point where I give up
and use white chocolate. [chuckles]
[Dan] Pour the filling
over the biscuits and bake.
[Nicky] Going in.
Now, obviously, there's no bake time.
I'm gonna start with 30 minutes.
Fifteen and then check.
-Twenty.
-[beeping]
Between 15 and 25 minutes. [laughs]
So it's a fairly big window.
[Tasha] It's getting hotter.
-[Dan] You okay?
-[Tasha] Er, not great.
-[sighs]
-[Tasha] Very hot.
-[Matty] I'm sweating.
-[Alison] I'll fan you down if you want.
It's working wonders, that.
How long we got left?
-45 minutes.
-Got it in you to do 45 minutes of that?
-Yeah, 'course I could.
-[laughs]
[laughs]
[sighs] My chocolate's caramelised.
After chuffing half an hour
of sodding about with white chocolate.
[Tasha] My chocolate, not great,
but I'll make them anyway.
My chocolate's been caramelised,
so I'm happy.
I've literally just put it in the oven.
It's mental.
God, it'll be fine.
Sod them.
Okay, bakers, you've got 30 minutes left.
[sighs] My God.
[Dan] Let's have a nosy.
Gonna give 'em five more minutes.
[Matty] They're out.
No idea if they're cooked.
I'm worried about the chilling time.
To get the jelly on so it doesn't melt,
and the cream on, so it doesn't melt.
[Nicky] I would say they're coming out.
[Matty] They've sunk.
Could be good or bad.
Gonna wang them in the freezer.
Couple of kids opted to wear jumpers
on the hottest day of the year.
I'm sweating, literally.
-It's very hot.
-[Noel laughs]
[sighs] I match my shirt.
My rouge, don't I?
-It's hot.
-[Tasha] Really dizzy.
Is Tash all right?
[Tasha] It's so hot,
I think I need some air.
[medic] Take as much time as you need.
-[Tasha] Okay.
-Slowly, get up for me.
[Noel] Unfortunately, the heat
is taking its toll on Tasha.
[medic] Make sure you take
nice and slow breathing.
[Alison] She's been advised
to take a break from the tent.
Is she all right?
Just give yourself
a couple of minutes, okay?
[Tasha sniffles, exhales]
[Josh] Still a wobble in the middle.
I'll give it another five minutes.
[Cristy] Two more minutes.
[Saku] Oh, I don't know.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
Right, I'm getting these things out.
They've got the jiggle. Just need to
set fully, but we haven't got long.
Getting them out can be a bit tricky.
[Rowan] Oh, what do I do?
[chuckles] I think they're all right.
[Dan] Got a slight bit
of a wobble on them,
so I think we're potentially
looking okay with that.
Hi, darling, how are you?
Gutted.
[Noel] Tasha hasn't recovered
to finish the challenge.
I had a massive migraine last night.
I thought I would feel better, but…
I can see you're not well.
Go home, sweetheart. Go rest.
Come on, I'll walk you back.
-[Tasha] Oh.
-Come on.
[Dan] Right, so now, place set jelly
on top of each of the cheesecakes.
Still it is hot, I'm really worried.
Oh, gosh, just so stressful.
[Dana] I'll put these on top.
Needs maximum time in the freezer.
[Saku] Oh, how am I going to do this,
it will melt.
[Dan] Pipe a wavy line of Chantilly cream
down the middle of each cheesecake.
Bakers, you've got one minute left,
one minute.
[Dan] Yeah, I'm really happy.
[Saku] Ah, it's melting.
-[Cristy] They're hot.
-[Josh sighs]
-[Rowan] Don't know what I'm doing.
-[Noel] Bakers.
Melting, melting, melting.
Your time…
-[Cristy] Oh, my gosh.
-[Noel] …is…
-up.
-[sighs]
Please bring your cheesecakes
down to the gingham table
and place them behind your photographs.
[Alison] Prue and Paul
are expecting six identical,
elegantly-decorated cheesecakes
with a silky, caramelised
white chocolate filling.
[Paul] Okay, shall we start
over here then?
These look relatively neat.
[Prue] And they all look identical.
[Paul] A little bit dark.
Yeah, little overbaked.
The cheesecake filling is delicious,
but it is a little bit too caramelised.
From the sublime…
[Prue laughs] Well, this one
is not very good-looking.
[Paul] Everything's been piled on top
while they're hot, it's pouring off.
[Prue] Biscuit base is very good.
-[Paul] It's grainy, the filling.
-[Prue] The custard filling.
But they all look right size
if I'm looking for a positive.
[chuckles]
Now these look quite nice,
although there's a big dip in the middle.
This is down to
bringing them out too early.
But the jelly looks good, the decoration,
the pipework looks nice as well.
-Hmm. The flavour is good.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-Caramelisation is correct.
-[Paul] It is.
Again, rushed. It's overbaked.
You can see how dark
the white chocolate has gone.
-[Prue] Bit too far.
-[Paul] Rushed for time.
It's a shame that they've overbaked it.
[Prue] These are neat.
[Paul] These are very neat.
-[base snaps]
-Nice snap.
Decent colour.
[Prue] All the layers
are very even and neat.
[Paul] Hmm.
Mmm. Smooth filling.
-That's delicious.
-Yeah, it's very good.
Okay, moving on.
Again, it's overbaked.
[Prue] And the jelly doesn't look
as if it's smooth.
[Paul] It's a bit rough.
Let's have a look inside this.
It is overbaked, white chocolate,
it's a little bit grainy on the mouth.
-Mmm.
-[Paul] Not as smooth as it could be.
[Prue] This looks as if it got dropped.
Again, there's been
a problem with the heat
and everything thrown on
at the last minute.
The actual colour is not bad.
It's good, the filling's good.
The base is good.
It's nice and smooth inside.
It's a pity 'cause
if this baker'd had more time,
it would've been a really good one.
The oaty base is not very even.
This side is very thick,
-that side's thin.
-[Paul] It is.
I think the filling's all right.
[Prue] Yeah,
that blackcurrant is delicious, isn't it?
[Noel] Paul and Prue
will now rank the cheesecakes from least
to most successful.
Okay, in eighth spot, we have this one.
Saku, they look terrible and overbaked.
-I think you ran out of time.
-In seventh place, we have this one.
Cristy. It's a bit of a mess,
but it tasted good.
Thank you.
In sixth, we have this one.
Josh, just far too dark
in the caramel and the bake.
[Alison] Dana is fifth place,
Nicky is fourth,
-and Rowan comes third.
-Wow.
In second spot, we have this one.
Whose is this?
Matty, these aren't too bad.
Bit of a dip in the middle.
Which means…
Dan.
Well, Dan, that is amazing.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
[Prue] It's the only one which is perfect.
-Thank you.
Sun's shining, first in my technical,
it's a good end to my day.
[Matty] Best I've done so far,
and I do love cheesecake.
I tasted everyone's about two times over.
I feel a bit sick now. [laughs]
That was awful. [laughs]
Absolutely excruciating.
[laughing]
[Saku] Ah, why I am laughing?
I should cry.
Still, there is little hope for tomorrow.
It's a new day, new bake.
Still old me, we'll see. [chuckles]
[Alison] Are you happy
with how everything's going?
Overall, with Chocolate Week,
I've been a little bit underwhelmed.
It was difficult yesterday.
Tasha was so upset
that she wasn't very well.
Tasha, unfortunately, had to go.
She'll be with us next week.
Could someone leave
because someone's dropped out?
Yeah, someone still can leave.
Who needs to be worried today?
I think two people, Cristy,
and I think, Saku,
are in a lot of trouble.
Depending on the showstopper,
-I think someone may be going today.
-Wow.
Good to see you, bakers. Welcome back.
It's time for your showstopper challenge.
Today, the judges
would love you to make a spectacular
edible chocolate box.
When I get a box of chocolates,
I throw the chocolates out
-and eat the box.
-[laughs]
[Alison] Now, your edible chocolate box
alongside some filled moulded chocolates
should contain exquisite,
perfectly baked chocolate cake.
You have four chocolatey hours.
-On your marks…
-[Noel] Get set…
[Alison] Bake!
There's a lot to do in four hours.
Just wanna get started
and do it. [chuckles]
The showstopper this week
is a chocolate box cake.
What we're after is to try to find out
how skilful the bakers are with chocolate.
My biggest fear is the box.
If you don't get the temper right,
you'll make everything else harder.
The tempering
is all about rising the temperature,
cooling it down sufficiently
before they start putting
all the components together.
Or the whole thing will collapse.
[Prue] The chocolate box
is more about precision.
The cake, on the other hand,
is about flavour.
But the wonderful thing about chocolate
is it goes with so many things.
[Paul] They could do whatever they want.
This is their chance to shine.
A few bakers
are in a bit of trouble at the moment,
and they need to create
a little bit of chocolate magic.
-Hi, Josh.
-[Josh] Hello.
So, Josh, we need to know
all about your chocolate box.
Yes, so, I shall be
doing a chemistry chocolate box.
The periodic table?
A periodic table around the edge.
-You are doing it.
-[Josh] Elements around the edge.
The box is gonna have
chemistry-shaped cut-outs all round it.
[Noel] Josh's formula
for chocolate box success
includes a chocolate sponge cake
layered with caramel buttercream
and roasted hazelnuts.
Topped with salted caramel and vanilla
and white chocolate truffles.
And he's hoping his hand-piped decorations
will spark a positive reaction.
I'll use the elements to write words,
I'm doing phenethylamine,
which is like a neurotransmitter.
Gonna have vanilla
in there as well for you,
butyric acid, which is in milk chocolate.
Gonna have oleic acid--
-Josh! Josh, stop, stop!
-Sorry.
-[Paul] Enough.
-You lost me at the last roundabout.
-[Alison laughs]
Oh, still tempering. [chuckles]
[Alison] Whether the bakers are using dark
or trickier white chocolate…
[Cristy] Wanted the white
to introduce colour.
You can't do that
with the darker chocolates.
[Noel] …it needs to be well-tempered
in order to build their boxes.
[Dan] The chocolate's gotta be
tempered perfectly.
If it isn't, it'll bend,
it'll crack, it'll snap.
[Alison] But with Rowan using
both dark and white…
We don't have
perfectly tempered chocolate,
-but I'm just going with it.
-[Noel] …speed is of the essence.
[Rowan] So, I'm doing a paintbox
for my granddad.
He's an artist.
I'm just creating the woodgrain now
and then go over it again
with white chocolate and fill in the gaps.
[Alison] Inside Rowan's nostalgic
paintbox will be a dark chocolate sponge
filled with multiple
chocolate orange layers
including a Swiss meringue buttercream,
mousse and orange curd.
Raspberry and orange fondant chocolates
will represent his granddad's oil colours.
When you practised, have you
managed to do it well in the time?
It's funny you say that.
I've not quite practised this.
He's been doing his dissertation as well.
I've just finished university. This week.
-My goodness. Congratulations.
-Thank you.
Get it done as fast as possible
and cover up the cracks afterwards.
[Josh] I wanna make sure
that my panel is thin.
I want a thin delicate box.
[Noel] While one half of the bakers
are building their boxes
out of chocolate panels…
It's meant to be rustic,
it's meant to do this.
…Cristy, Dana, Saku and Dan
are using moulds to shape theirs.
[Dan] Putting the chocolate
into my moulds is the most crucial part.
I am doing today an edible treasure chest
filled with the flavours of the Caribbean.
[Noel] Dan's pirate booty
will see his moulded chocolate chest
filled with layers
of white chocolate mousse,
tropical fruit jellies, coconut dacquoise
and a white chocolate genoise sponge.
His chocolates will be filled
with caramel and rum-soaked raisins
and shaped like sea shells.
I love making this because it's dedicated
to my kids and stuff on the beach.
My kids are on the beach today.
-Mine as well.
-What are we doing in a tent?
Why are we here?
[Alison] Dan's not the only baker
celebrating their inner child.
So, I am doing a princess carriage.
[Alison gasps]
Living my childhood dream
of wanting to be a princess,
which never came to life.
Listen, it's still early days.
It's still early days.
[Alison] Dana's bringing
her childhood princess dreams to life
with a white chocolate carriage
filled with layers of chocolate sponge,
salted peanut caramel and peanut butter
and cream cheese mousse.
Her fantasy will be complete
with a cookie dough
and Irish cream liqueur chocolates
alongside carefully moulded
chocolate decorations.
[Dana] So, I made these.
The only trouble is trying
to get the leg out of the mould.
So far, I've been unsuccessful.
We'll see.
[Prue] Oh, my goodness.
Because it's midnight,
they're turning into mice.
-That's the whole…
-Ah.
-[Alison] Are you Cinderella?
-I'm Cinderella today, I am. [chuckles]
[Noel] While Dana's hoping her horses
don't turn back into mice…
I need it out of the way
so I can breathe again.
…Cristy is trying to avoid a broken heart.
I'm doing a heart chocolate box.
I'm dedicating it to my husband,
my little soulmate.
[chuckles]
[Alison] Cristy's romantic
white chocolate box
will be loaded with layers
of hazelnut mascarpone filling
and chocolate and hazelnut sponge.
Her husband Ryan's favourite flavours.
Her heart-shaped chocolates
will contain hazelnut praline
and chocolate ganache.
You need to have a good one.
-I do.
-No pressure.
I think if I had like something
to relax me,
-like a drink.
-[both chuckling]
-If I could have a team--
-Floatation tank.
-I can organise that.
-No, I can't.
-I'll get on it.
-All right. [laughs]
[Noel] After her own
disappointing first day…
[Saku] This is the cricket bat.
[Noel] …Saku's hoping not to be
bowled out of the competition.
This box is for my daughter.
She loves cricket.
[Alison] Saku's cylindrical chocolate box
will contain a pistachio sponge
filled with chocolate cream cheese icing.
She's hoping her ambitious plans to make
three different moulded chocolates,
flavoured with pistachio, raspberry
and coffee, won't leave her stumped.
[Noel] What's she good at?
-She's a spin bowler.
-[Noel] Spin bowler.
That's what I did in school.
-Aw.
-I was a spin bowler.
[Saku] So why don't you do it now?
Bit old. Legs are like breadsticks.
[both laughing]
Chocolate is tempered.
So I'm just moulding it round these.
[Alison] While their box elements set…
[Noel] Looks like someone knows
what they're doing.
[laughs]
-[Nicky] Shock, horror.
-[laughs]
[Alison] …the bakers can now focus
on the chocolate cake that will go inside.
We're going
for a chocolate genoise sponge.
Hopefully, it's nice and moist.
[Noel] Genoise sponge will form
the base of Matty's cake
layered with raspberry coulis,
crème mousseline
and covered in a chocolate mirror glaze.
He's hoping the flavours
of his pistachio and lemon chocolates
will keep him in favour with the judges.
Now I think you are on the rise.
You have to keep going up.
Fingers crossed. Yeah.
-On the rise.
-[laughs]
-Don't leave me hanging.
-Sorry.
[both laugh]
[Alison] To rise above
this chocolate challenge…
That's going in for 25 minutes.
…as well as producing a box,
cake and multiple fillings…
I've never made an orange curd.
I'm not worried are you?
[Noel] …bakers also have at least
one set of moulded chocolates to make.
[Saku] This is pistachio chocolate.
[Noel] While some
are managing the workload…
We've done that, we've done that.
Oh, my days.
…Nicky's hit a snag.
I am trying to make myself salted caramel
and I am trying to bring it back
from the brink.
It will work.
[Alison] Nicky's tricky caramel
will form the centre
of one of her moulded chocolates
while the other will be filled
with lemongrass and coconut.
They'll sit on top of her chai
and orange liqueur cake
decked with layers of chocolate
ganache and hazelnut meringue.
[Nicky] No, it's gone over.
It'll be like toffee.
I'm gonna be mucking about
with this for a bit, I think.
Bakers, you're halfway through
Oh!
Oh, I'm panicking like mad now.
Chocolate Week is my week.
I've had a bit of Rowan's chocolate,
a bit of Dan's chocolate,
a bit of Cristy's chocolate.
All I want now is your chocolate.
[both laughing]
[crew laughing]
I'll wait for it to melt.
[Saku] Oh, my word. [sighs]
It's not baked in the middle.
I have to start the cake.
In practice, they was double,
one of those sponges. I'm gonna redo it.
[Noel] While Matty and Saku
remake their chocolate sponges…
[Saku] I am stressing now.
[Noel] …Rowan…
I'm so behind, I could scream.
…and Nicky…
[Nicky] Take three on the caramel.
[exhales heavily] I haven't even done
the lemongrass bit yet.
[Noel] …are having to scale back
their plans.
I've gone rogue. I'm just doing one.
I'll stick to orange.
Do you know what? Even if I got just
one set of chocolates out, I'd be happy.
[Alison] No matter how many chocolates
the bakers are making…
I'm doing a couple in silver,
couple in gold.
So, these go inside the treasure chest.
…Paul and Prue are expecting
a thin, shiny, tempered chocolate shell.
[Nicky] Don't you just love this bit?
I love this bit.
It is quite fun it's just a messy job.
And I'm not a fan of cleaning, so…
[Dan] Outrageous amount
of mess I'm making today.
-[Nicky] It's like a bomb's hit it.
-This is ridiculous.
[Alison] It's really messy here.
-I know.
-What are you--
Rowan's a mess, you're a mess.
I'm gonna have to do
some cleaning lessons.
[Dana] This is popping candy.
'Cause every carriage ride,
there would be fireworks somewhere.
[Dan] So I've got my rum and raisins,
which have been macerating at home
for a couple of months.
CO is copper.
No, it's cobalt.
You can tell I got a D in chemistry.
-[Noel] You all right, Saku?
-Not really.
[Noel] I've not seen anyone
put anything in the oven that fast.
[Matty] Twelve minutes. Go.
[Noel] Just breathe.
-[exhales]
-That's it. Breathe.
[exhales]
[both laugh]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
Shiver me timbers and help ma Boab,
I've got an hour left.
-[exhales]
-[Dan] Gonna start assembling.
[Noel] For the bakers
with moulded chocolate boxes…
[Cristy] Hope this goes well.
[Noel] …it's the moment of truth.
[Saku] Oh, I'm really scared now.
[Dana] It's always come out of the mould.
For some reason…
[sighs] …now it's not.
[Cristy] I'm just gonna cut it out,
you know? It's gotta work.
My heart is breaking right now.
[Saku] So far all right.
[Dan] Perfect timing, Noel. Thank you.
I don't wanna watch you do that,
it's too stressful.
I'm shaking.
I can breathe again.
-[Dana] There we go.
-My life's depending on this.
[Alison] Whilst half the tent can
now begin constructing their cakes…
[Dan] Fruit in.
[Alison] …the other half still have
to hand-build their boxes.
Sweating now. This is the moment.
[Noel] If the chocolate panels
haven't been properly tempered…
I'm worried these aren't tempered right.
Let's see if we can assemble it.
…they'll be too soft
and the box will collapse.
It's not set properly.
It's fine. It is what it is.
[Nicky] Oh! Oh, dearie me.
I've got shaky hands.
[Matty] Feels like it's doing its stuff.
I've only done it once.
Hundred percent record. [laughs]
[sighs] This isn't tempered right.
Oh, God.
[exhales]
I don't know what to do.
I'll have to do some more
tempered chocolate.
I'm praying I've got enough time.
My cake and my truffles are there.
I just haven't got a box.
How long have we got?
Bakers, you only have half an hour left.
[Saku] I hope it's done.
[Alison] While Saku and Matty's
remade sponges are baked…
How to cool this down?
…as well as finishing the cakes…
Nothing brown and log-like.
Looks pleasant.
[Noel] …Saku's still got three sets
of moulded chocolates to make.
[Saku] I don't know if I can finish this.
-You can do this. I know you can.
-Hmm.
-You've got this.
-Thank you.
[Rowan] This is diabolical.
Wow, you've made a sofa.
A small sofa.
-What's happening here?
-What a mare.
[Dana] They're lying down horses.
I'll have to get the legs out separately.
Right. We can do this, can't we?
These chocolates have got to come out.
They are not coming out.
Not tempered right.
One out.
[Josh] I've got some panels now.
It's better,
but I'm just short on time now.
-Two out.
-[Josh] What can I make out of this?
[Dan] Boom town.
-Hello.
-How you doing?
-I'm all right.
-[both laugh]
[Alison] They look amazing.
You're smashing it.
-See you later.
-Take it easy, go for it.
[both laugh]
I do not know how on earth
I've managed to put a box together.
How much time we got?
Bakers, you've just got one minute left.
[Josh] I've got to get
Alison's name piped on the side.
[Rowan] It looks like
my granddad sat on it
instead of opened it to paint.
[Cristy] Feeling happy.
I've not had a disaster.
[Dan] Saku, you need a hand?
-Yes. Take these out.
-Turn these out?
-Yeah.
-[Dan] You get cracking. I'll do this.
[Nicky] I can't get it off the board.
Sod it, Nick. Get it in.
Okay, bakers, your time…
-Come on, Nick.
-[Noel] …is…
[Nicky laughs] It's in.
…up.
Please step away
from your edible chocolate box cakes.
[Rowan] This is the worst thing
I've ever made. [chuckles]
Oh, my God.
[Noel] It's judgement time
for the bakers' chocolate box cakes.
Matty, it's time for your showstopper.
I think your box
is beautifully engineered,
but lost all its shine.
-Hmm.
-[Prue] Right, let's get the top off.
Well, now, this is nice and shiny.
Moulded chocolates are perfectly tempered.
Inside, it's got
a chocolate genoise sponge
with a chocolate crème mousseline,
raspberry coulis.
Raspberry is delicious.
-[Prue] Hmm.
-And the textures are spot on.
To put raw raspberries in
often will make it too wet,
-you've done it well. Well done.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] What's in the white chocolate?
-[Matty] Lemon mousse.
And the dark chocolate's pistachio cream.
I'd pay a lot for a box of those.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Good job.
-[Prue] Well done.
-Thank you.
Well done, you.
[Prue] It's so neat and it's so beautiful.
-Wow.
-Oh, that looks amazing.
[Prue] Passion fruit
is a good idea because it's glittery.
It looks like jewels.
So, this is my tropical entremets
consisting of genoise sponge,
a coconut dacquoise,
white chocolate mousse,
passion fruit jelly with salted caramel
and rum-and-raisin chocolates.
Hmm. Flavours are wonderful.
[Paul] They are. Really fresh.
But it's not carrying
a lot of baking in there.
[Prue] It's really a dessert.
Your salted caramel chocolate
is delicious. Got a lovely shine on it.
[Prue] It's impressive.
It's more impressive from a distance
-'cause you can't see the lack of detail.
-I agree.
-[Paul] Pity you couldn't put the legs on.
-They've had a long day.
[Paul] There's not much of a shine
on that cake.
The cake is delicious.
But the nuts and the caramel,
far too pale.
It needs to be richer in colour
and that brings more flavour.
Have a look at one of these.
So, we've got cookie dough and pretzel
and an Irish liqueur cream filling.
-What is that?
-Is that the popping candy?
-Oh.
-[Alison] Yeah, I can hear it.
It's very sweet.
-Not the neatest work you've done.
-[Prue] No.
I've had a mare.
[Paul] They're a bit weird in colour,
aren't they?
Hmm.
[Prue] What's in the blue one?
That's an orange fondant.
-Ish. There's a hint.
-Okay.
It's a chocolate cake with a chocolate
orange Swiss meringue buttercream
and orange curd.
Ooh, that's delicious.
[Paul] The flavour's great,
but it's a bit of a mess.
-Yeah.
-[Prue] You know what?
If we came to your house
and had a slice of that,
you'd think it was perfect.
Er. Mmm, I'd kick off.
[all laughing]
You're not invited.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
You got a box that's not tempered properly
which is why it's lost its shine.
When you're doing piping like this
you have to be so precise
and that's not precise enough.
[Alison] The piping on this side's good.
It says Alison.
I think it's fantastic.
The sponge is baked beautifully well.
Not carrying a huge amount of flavour.
That's because the hazelnuts
are so strong.
I would complain that I've got
too many nuts in my mouth.
[contestants laughing]
-Let's try this white one, which is?
-[Josh] White chocolate and vanilla.
This one's got
caramel chocolate and hazelnut.
-Very nice. Mmm.
-Oh, that's delicious.
I think this is a little triumph.
The box looks amazing.
-[Prue] The tempering is impressive.
-The shine.
-[Prue] Shine is fantastic.
-Thank you.
[Paul] Where are all your truffles?
There's just three.
[Nicky] Yes.
They weren't quite all capped.
-I thought I'll give you three nice ones.
-[Prue chuckles]
[Paul] The cake, the meringue,
the nuts in there…
-It is an extremely rich cake.
-Hmm.
I love the richness
and I love the flavours.
Delicious.
What is in here?
Salted caramel.
Certainly is.
[Paul] Really nice.
-Who's the third one for?
-You want it?
-[Nicky] Well caught.
-[laughing]
-I like it.
-Thanks, Nicky.
[Prue] I love the box.
-It's perfect.
-Really beautiful.
Did you manage to get it out
without a crack?
Very good.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Let's have a look.
It's a chocolate cake
with a chocolate and mascarpone filling.
It's very chocolatey.
I just think the texture is a bit solid.
It is. It's a bit dry in the mouth.
Okay.
[Prue] These are nice and shiny.
The praline's nice.
-Oh, good.
-[Paul] It's a nice chocolate.
Mmm, coffee's lovely. Both very good.
[Paul] The box structurally is very good.
A nice-looking box.
It's a shame the shine's not there
'cause that'd look really good.
Ah, there's the cricket bat.
Isn't that a perfect cricket bat?
[Paul] You've struggled a bit
with the chocolates.
-Yeah.
-[Paul] Maybe you should've done one type
rather than three.
-Yes.
-[Prue] Let's see what the cake's like.
Cake is milk chocolate and a pistachio.
I love the pistachio flavour.
It is a bit dry.
I think the flavour, however,
is beautiful.
-[Prue] Is this one-- Coffee.
-Coffee.
Mmm. Certainly is.
I like that one.
But the chocolate is a bit soft.
Still pretty delicious.
Well done, Saku.
Thank you very much.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Thanks.
[Saku] It was far better
than what I thought,
but I'm done with chocolate.
No more chocolate in my life, ever.
That was a nice way to finish the day off.
Sun's out, got a result like that.
I'm happy with that.
I don't know about Star Baker.
But as close to getting it as I have been.
I feel proud of what I presented.
But I think off the back of yesterday,
I could possibly be going home.
The stress ride continues.
[quacking]
So, Paul, Prue, how impressed
were you with the showstoppers?
[Prue] Matty's cake was one of the best
because it was light.
It still tasted chocolatey and delicious.
We wanted the chocolate
to be in the cake as well as the box.
-[Alison] Yeah.
-When we did get a chocolate like Nicky,
it was really punchy.
I don't know about you guys,
but I was happy seeing Dan come back.
Thank goodness for that.
This was utterly delicious.
But there was hardly any cake in it.
The one I was so disappointed
about was Rowan.
-His box was a complete mess.
-He was in line for Star Baker.
So, I think it ended up with, for me,
between Nicky and Matty.
Who needs to be worried today?
Definitely Cristy, definitely Saku.
Coming into today,
they weren't doing well.
And both of them are much of a muchness.
Saku's was quite dry,
but the flavour was good.
Cristy's, quite dry,
So, they're almost identical.
The fact that Tasha's not here.
We have to decide
whether someone should go
or we leave it for another week.
That's what Prue and I
have to go through again
and see where we are.
I'll be honest with you. Josh.
The fact that he used my name,
for me, he's the winner.
You need to try that. I guarantee
you'll have a problem with his nuts.
[Alison and Noel laughing]
[Noel] Hello, bakers.
I've got the lovely job
of announcing this week's Star Baker.
And the person
who's Star Baker this week is…
Matty.
-Told ya.
-Well done.
-[applause]
-Well done, mate.
Unfortunately, I've got the awful job
of announcing who's leaving today.
So, the baker leaving the tent today is…
None of ya.
You're all staying.
However, next week,
two bakers will leave the tent.
Thank you, guys.
-[indistinct chatter]
-[Dana] Well done, Matty.
I'm so happy.
I am buzzing, yeah.
Also, a little bit of a confidence boost.
-You was right. [laughs]
-[Alison laughs]
You had this week.
This was your week.
Matty has been getting better and better.
I think he really deserves Star Baker.
-[Paul] Bit better next week, please.
-I will try my best.
Phew! Such a relief.
Goodness gracious,
I can't be more happy. [laughs]
I'm just so over the moon
to have got halfway. It's just mad.
[Paul] It was between Saku and Cristy
that was gonna go,
and I think with the fact that Tasha
didn't do too well in her first challenge,
it wasn't fair that someone left.
It's Pastry Week next week
and the pressure will be on all the bakers
because two will be leaving.
-[Matty's mum on phone] Hello?
-Mum, I won Star Baker.
Oh, my God! Oh, I'm so proud of you.
Thank you.
On the week where we thought
you were going out.
"We"?
[both laugh]
[closing theme music playing]